.\" manual page for sstoper
.\" 
.\" Licensed under GPLv2
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH SSTOPER 8
.SH NAME
sstoper \- SSTP Client for Linux

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sstoper [-vDh]
[-s \fIhostname\fR] 
[-c \fIca-file\fR] 
[-U \fIusername\fR] 
[-P \fIpassword\fR] 
[-x \fI/path/to/pppd\fR] 
[-p \fIPORTNUM\fR]
[-d \fIDomain\fR] 
[-l \fIlogfile\fR]
[-m \fIproxy\fR]
[-n \fIproxy-port\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fIsstoper\fR is an VPN client for *nix based hosts, to establish connection
with Microsoft SSTP protocol. SSTP (Secure Socket Tunneling Protocol) allows to
create a Layer-2 based VPN, by encapsulating PPP packets inside an HTTPS
connection.
SSToPer relies on GnuTLS library and pppd tool. SSToPer behaviour is
described like this

.LP
1. establish a HTTPS connection to remote SSTP server
.LP
2. perform SSTP negociation
.LP
3. fork with correct parameters to pppd*. 

(* Since pppd requires root privilege, so does sstoper).


.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
.TP
.B -s|--server \fISERVER
This mandatory argument defines the SSTP server hostname.

.TP
.B -c|--ca-file \fI/path/to/ca-file
The CA trusted file is required by TLS to authenticate the server. By defaut,
Windows SSTP Server implementation embeds a Web service to retrieve server CA
file. If you don't already have this file, download it from
\fIhttp://your.server/certsrv/\fR
CA file MUST be stored with Base64 PEM format (does not support DER).

.TP
.B -U|--username \fIUSERNAME\fR
This mandatory option specifies the username to be used for authentication with
the remote system. 

.TP
.B -P|--password \fIPASSWORD\fR
This mandatory option specifies the password associated with the username (-U)
to be used for authentication. If not specified, prompt will ask for one.

.TP
.B -v|--verbose
This option increases verbosity level. By default, sspclient only displays read
or sent bytes during the connection.

.TP
.B -p|--port \fIPORTNUM\fR
This option specifies an alternative port number. By default SSTP only defines
usage of TCP port 443, thus this option does not have to be specified.

.TP
.B -x|--pppd-path \fI/path/to/pppd\fR
This option specifies the path to pppd binary. The default path under many *nix
system is "/usr/sbin/pppd".

.TP
.B -d|--domain \fIwindows.domain.com\fR
This option will be used by pppd to explicity declare domain name.
.TP

.B -m|--proxy \fIPROXYHOST\fR
Specifies proxy host. Proxy will receive inside CONNECT request a special header
(SSTPVERSION), that can be used to filter out SSTP connection request.

.TP
.B -n|--proxy-port \fIPROXYPORT\fR
Specifies port to connect to for PROXYHOST.

.TP
.B -l|--logfile \fI/path/to/logfile\fR
This option will be used by pppd to log all pppd actions into specified file.

.TP
.B -D|--daemon
Start SSToPer as background process.


.SH SUPPORT
.LP
\fIsstoper\fR has been tested successfully against Windows (c) 2008
Entreprise and Windows (c) 2008 Entreprise R2 using Linux Fedora 13 with
standard library, Debian Lenny. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pppd (8)
.TP
.B MS SSTP Specification
\fIhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc247338(PROT.10).aspx\fR
Release v20100820.

.SH AUTHORS
This tool has been written by Christophe Alladoum. 

.SH BUGS / ENHANCEMENT
If any bug or misbehaviour is observed, or to suggest enhancement, please email
me at < christophe __DOT__ alladoum __AT__ hsc __DOT__ fr >
Thanks !

.SH COPYRIGHT
SSToPer is release under GPLv2 license.
.LP
SSTP is copyrighted by (c) 2010 Microsoft Corporation.
.LP
OpenSSL is released under BSD licence
(http://www.openssl.org/source/license.html) 
.LP
GnuTLS is released under LGPL licence 2.1+
(http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html) 
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are allowed according to GPLv2 conditions.

.SH DISCLAIMER
.LP
THE AUTHORS OF THIS SOFTWARE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
